Greetings from Washington DC. I have with me today Senator Eskis-Kipawler of Tennessee.
It's very well known to all of the folks in my state. And of course the Democratic candidate
for Vice President in the last year's election and has been to the state of Washington very
many times, many friends there. I'm very happy to have him with me here today to discuss a question
which is a very familiar subject to the citizens of the state of Washington. And that is the
Hell's Canyon Dam issue. Recently as you know, the United States Senate approved the authorization
of federal construction of a high-health canyon dam after rejecting that proposition last year.
One of the key men in the training Senate approval was Senator Eskis-Kipawler.
And we will go into what happened in that respect. And this discussion, Senator Eskis-Kipawler,
I'm very glad to have you here with me today.
Well, thank you, Congressman Don, I'm very glad to have this opportunity of being with you
and I've been associated with you and many many causes over a long period of time,
we're here in Washington and back in the state of Washington. I'm glad to have this chance of being on this program with you.
Let me say in the first place that whenever I go to Washington and I have been there many times
you have said that with your senators and with you always think about the similarity between your problems
and the development of the Columbia River Basin and our problems and developing Tennessee Valley authority.
And we have caught together because we want to have these great rivers and our natural resources
developed to their greatest potential. And I find also that always there are a lot of people who either came from Tennessee
or who's relatives came from Tennessee who have a good fortune of living in the state of Washington.
We're, we're mighty happy to have them, Senator.
Do we do just briefly before we get into the question on the fast-packed right off
but Idaho Park Company, which figured so prominently in the debate on the health can and the health can and both in the Senate?
I think our listeners are fairly familiar with health can and issues.
The issue really is whether you have a supply, whether the great natural resource afforded by the snake river and the Columbia River,
in other words by the waters of the Columbia River training system, shall be utilized to their full capacity
or where we shall have partial peace yield development. On the high health can and dam, which I support and which you support,
as you know, would provide for full development of the great hydroelectric potential of the snake river and the Columbia River.
The federal power commission saw fifth to grant licenses to the Idaho power company to build three small dams,
which would be inferior and capacity by some of the excuses for our contradictory figures, but probably the best authority is to see
the high-damp and high-damp would provide almost four million acre-feet of storage.
So it is obvious that we would get more out of the high-damp now, but the question I particularly want to talk about today is your exposure of the tactics that we're using in obtaining the
tax tax right off for the Idaho power company in the sector of the cost of building properly and off for dams.
Well, Don, I do think that in the Senate where we had a great victory, and this is the first time I've seen the gallery break out in spontaneous and along the floors over a building a long, long time,
our victory was 45 to 38 in the Senate, whereas last year the Senate voted just the other way.
I do think the rapid tax right off issue had a great deal to do with it, and the subcommittee of which I'm chairman on the Nuffley and Andy Truss matters,
and went into this issue and a great deal with the tail.
The thing about it was that back in 1953, when the Idaho power company was applying for its license for the federal power commission, they said time and time again that their dams would be built without cost to the public, without public funds.
Mr. Roach said that while they didn't have an application pending, they had only a faithful Mr. Roach's bread.
So, if you had asked about that Idaho power company, then they testified Mr. Carey, the attorney for the Idaho power company testified before the committees of Congress very recently that this is going to be built without cost to the public, and their advertising program,
that's one of the main things that made a feature on no cost to the federal government or to the public.
And indeed, the federal power commission on granting the license, one of the main considerations on the reason they gave it to the Idaho power company,
was that here it would be built without cost to the public or to the tax team.
But if I lo and behold that after having said all these things, that on April 10th, Mr. Gordon Gray, they hit the offensive defense mobilization upon the urging of a fast call who was representing the Idaho power company and other Idaho power company officials,
and they ran a text right off of 60% on Oxbow and 65% on Brownlee, maybe the other way around.
Now that meant according to Mr. Rainwater, the federal power commission, that the federal government would lose 83 and a half million dollars by virtue of these rapid text write-offs.
That would be the loss in revenues of the United States.
That would be the loss in the revenues of the Treasury of the United States.
And what would the benefits be for the Idaho power company?
The benefits over a 50-year period to the Idaho power company was figured by Mr. Rainwater to be $339 million.
And these amounts would be, perhaps a little less if they had taken advantage of some liberalized amortization law,
these were the figures that Mr. Rainwater gave, so that after having said that it was going to cost the taxpayers nothing,
and they reversed their field, got the tax amortization certificate.
But then the thing looks so bad, and there's so many secrets and meetings about it, and contradictory testimony and witnesses like Mr. Gordon Gray,
the head of ODE on fleeting privilege, the manly of Dixon Yeats, we had an awfully hard time getting the facts out.
So it looks so bad that on the very day that Senate voted out of the whole power's press with Mr. Roach Senate,
telegrams saying they weren't going to use the certificates, but that didn't make any difference.
That in fact, there was a mischievous interview that possibly strengthened the position of the advocates of the high dam.
Don't you think it looks highly suspicious for something to reject this great financial fund on the very day on which the Senate was going to vote on the project?
Well, it looked like they were trying to induce the Senate to both the other way, and to try to get some votes if they had the felt they were going to lose, and such as gamble.
But of course the thing about it was that Mr. Roach wouldn't have any rights to buy on the company. It wasn't an action board of directors, and I had a feeling that having rejected it for the purpose of the vote that is they succeeded,
while they'd be right back on some detention another time, you guess we got the facts right off.
Off their history, that certainly could be true, because that didn't do.
Very time that they were assuring everyone, their dams would be built at no cost to the taxpayers, they were pressing the office of defense mobilization for our fast tax right off.
Yeah, that's right. There was a lot of very interesting and suspicious circumstances in connection with this whole thing. Mr. Gray, Gordon Gray, had just come in as O. Podium director about a month before, and he said he made up his mind on April 10th.
Well, the first thing he did was to have a conference, an honor about that time with Sherman Adams, with the White House, with General Percy, very Morgan, and somebody else with the White House, and Mr. Bennett, as the Interior Department of the very end-governor's town, as the White House.
Very unusual that these kind of conferences take place, and Mr. Gray of course led privilege as to place these conferences.
It's sort of what you call, pleadingly executive fifth amendment to Senator Keith Hollis pleading privilege, all right.
And it was particularly unusual that these conferences took place when Mr. Gray knew so little about the background of a matter.
He'd only been there a short time, and when he came up and testified before us, he said that the Interior Department had recommended the granting of the substance for the out-of-who-power company.
Then, lo and behold, when we got the Interior Department before us, we found out that Mr. Seaton had written a very strong letter, the Secretary of the Interior, opposing the granting of the substance.
And Mr. Gray, as all this trying to deceive and withhold information about this letter letter, he was going on the assumption that Interior was all far from putting some letter way back two years before when Mr. Seaton had come out unapologetically against it.
So there were a lot of suspicious and unusual circumstances, say the least.
You also bring out the fact Senator that Mr. Cleming, Arthur Cleming, who proceeded Mr. Gray as the administrator of the Office of Defense Mobilization had left a rather extensive memorand raising many questions against the granting of the fast facts right off to the Idaho Power Company in the States.
Yes, I call Mr. Cleming on the telephone, and he told me about if he wasn't satisfied about the matter entirely, and that he had written Mr. Gray a full memorandum, setting out everything and certainly there would have been other conferences with Mr. Seaton and others.
While I asked Mr. Gray about this, I thought the public was entitled to have this information, Mr. Gray refused to give it to us and still refuses to.
And I think that had an effect upon a great little bit of the center for two.
Senator Lee in Northwest, who are particularly interested in high health, can in damn, certainly are grateful to you for, you know, a very significant role in obtaining a Senate approval of the high damage.
Now, of course, the fight is on in the House and a great responsibility evolves upon me and other members of the House from the Pacific Northwest are saying that the high damage.
Well, I know that's done that you certainly have been working hard on it not only now, but in years past.
And if there's any way in the world that this great project can be saved and fully are built for the benefit of the people that you can do anything about, that you will.
And I'm hoping you have success because it certainly would be a shame to destroy with three little dams, the finest remaining hydroelectric site or a multi-purpose big dam remaining on the North American continent.
It is a phenomenal natural site for a great hydroelectric project, Senator.
I see our time is up, and we thank you very much for appearing here.
It's been good to be with you. Thank you very much, sir.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have told from time to time on these programs about what I think should or should not be done to stimulate business, employment and the economy generally.
One thing which I pointed out that was health was done this past week.
The Federal Reserve system reduced its discount rate.
As a result, the guaranteed trust company of New York reduced its time interest rate to three and a half percent, and other banks all over the country are following food.
And after this, at the forelong, this will have its effect in helping spur building, small business and similar economic activity.
This is another move in the Federal Reserve system's relaxation or the so-called tight-money policy.
This policy was adopted in an effort to curb inflation, which was for a good intention.
But it hasn't worked. The reason is that this is not an ordinary kind of inflation.
The cost of living rose again last month, even though many plants were operating short shifts with employees laid off, and it much less than for taxes.
Under ordinary conditions, prices before this have been time. Instead they rise, and they rise because we are in an administrative price economy, which is not subject to the ordinary condition.
President Eisenhower has said that he wants to be sure the anti-recession measures taken are the right thing for the economy, and so do we all.
So that reason, I think you have to go beyond the big broad statements and diagnose the situation carefully.
And that is what we have been trying to do in support of this possible, in the hearings and studies that we have been conducting on the anti-monopoli subcommittee, which I have the privilege of being chairman.
Let me give you an example of a big broad statement that looks somewhat different under post-histrictness.
The President desires people to defend, and says there are more liquid assets, that is more money that people can get their hands on quickly, and the banks than ever before.
It is undoubtedly true that a private spending free would invigorate the economy temporarily at any rate, and people are going to spend when they have more confidence in the future.
Let's see whether we can really expect this in a big way. This chart was taken from the Federal Reserve Board, and sources of Federal Reserve Board.
It shows that in 1958, that 25% of the people did not have any liquid assets at all.
That is, in savings accounts, checking accounts or other liquid assets, they can get their hands on quickly.
At the age of 42, the people who have liquid assets are immediately available at less than $200.
55% had less than $500.
At the top up here, you would see that 40% of the people had liquid assets at over $10,000, and in many cases it is very, very much over.
Now I don't understand me, I don't begrudge the fortunate 4%, they are saving.
I simply say that such a distribution, as we see here, that we can't expect much of a spending move on the part of private individuals.
25% of the people are already spending all they make, they are just barely keeping ahead of the game.
And as far as the 4% has discussed, there are so many Cadillacs that a family can operate, even though it can afford many, many more.
The anti-monautically subcommittee will resume its hearings this week, and the further aspects of the automobile situation, which is very, very important in this picture.
It's important because the automobile industry has such a profound effect on the economy as a whole.
One out of seven prisons in the United States depends either directly or indirectly on the automobile industry or a living.
When automobile is selling, the textile industry feels its friction, so does the steel industry, the aluminum, rubber industry glass, machine tools, plastics, and on down the land, and you see a lot of those plants that flowed up partially as they stand.
We're going to get very fundamental in these hearings this week. We want to know what effect a change in price that has held, how many more people would buy, how many more cars would be sold, what effect it would have on its funds.
We want to know what effects the sign has, we want to know what part insurance and finance charges place.
We've got to understand the problem before we can relieve it. Congress doesn't want to do the wrong thing anymore than the test has done.
Now I'm glad to say that Congress is going after this fact that the test we can. Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this week I introduced a bill which if enacted I truly believe will be much to improve conditions in the automobile industry.
I was joined in this bill by Senator Langer of North Dakota, Senator Douglas of Illinois, Senator O'Malley of Wyoming, Senator Hinnings of Missouri, and Senator Carol of Colorado.
It is an excise cut with a difference however. The present excise tax on automobiles is 10%. My bill proposes that this tax remain in force, but that the manufacturer may receive a credit of one half of his tax obligation.
If he refunds the amount of such a credit to the ultimate retail buyer of his products, that is of the automobile.
The buyer of the new automobile would receive this refund as a lump sum payment directly from the manufacturer.
In this way there could be no possibility of his not getting the benefit of the tax reduction.
The bill has another important feature. It would make any such reduction retroactive to May 1, 1958.
I believe that this is very essential. During my, during discussion of my proposal or any other, sometimes will have to be taken.
During this time prospective buyers of automobiles may be uncertain as to the course congress may take.
They therefore might be tempted to wait to buy and to wait on buying an automobile and to hope that a reduction of tax is going to take place.
But what we are telling them is buy now and because the tax is retroactive, you can be assured that you will receive the benefit of any changes in the tax or any reduction in the tax which congress may enact.
Incidentally on this subject I was talking with Mr. Henry Ford the second this week on the telephone.
In the course of the conversation he told me that their dealers all over the country and it was true of the other automobile companies also.
They really cut in commissions and that they were co-operating with them toward this end in order to get more sales.
And he said that there are a lot of good bargains right now among automobiles. And I'm inclined to believe that he's true.
There have been a great many cuts and dealers certainly have been doing their best to get the cars moving.
I call Mr. Ford in connection with the proposed closing of the Memphis Ford plant.
We're all hopeful that there might be some reconsideration of this.
Obviously what is needed is co-operative action between the government and private industry and the automobile field along with poor balance on the part of labor.
I would hope that the reduction in excise taxes if it is enacted along the lines that I proposed might be met with an equal reduction in the price of automobiles by the manufacturers themselves.
If action along these lines is taken by government and management, then organized labor and the automobile industry must do its part also in exercising strength and its demands for higher wages or better working conditions.
I should not like to think that a sincere effort to reduce prices made by government and industry would be brought to note by wage demands which would result in any significant increase in cost.
My friends this proposal of mine is not made lightly. It is the result of some four months study by the industry, by the subcommittee on antitrust and monopoly of which I am chairman.
We undertook this study because the automobile industry is so very important, so basic to our economy as a whole.
When we undertook this study there was already widespread employment at that time.
But now however at that time it was principally concentrated in the state of Michigan.
Now it's spread, plants all over the United States are being closed or employment is being curtailed.
In Illinois, Ohio, New York, California, New Jersey and now unfortunately in Tennessee.
The effect of these cutbacks are now clearly evident in reduced activity in the steel industry, in tires and non-ferrous metals, in the glass and the textile industry.
And in others too numerous to mention. Some people think that under conditions like this perhaps the best thing to do is to stick your head in the sand and hope that the problem will go away.
I don't go along with that reasoning or committee doesn't. We believe that we can help most by a positive effort to be constructively helpful.
We believe that this proposal by which government and industry and labor,
join hands to attack the problem of course, can be such a constructive contribution.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I have a lot to talk with you about this week.
During this week a number of things that we have been working on to try to improve the economic conditions in the United States, completed their long trip through the Congress.
You will probably remember the Community Facilities Act of 1958, which I have mentioned from time to time on this program.
This is the bill which is sponsored by Senator Colbert and which I joined and have worked on very hard.
Senator Colbert is the chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee.
This bill makes it possible for counties and communities and cities to borrow money at lower interest rates to get underway long-deferred local public works programs.
The housing and home finance agency would administer the program.
Here before this agency has had to charge very high interest rates and has been severely restricted in the type of things for which it can loan money.
Under our bill the interest rate would go down to about 3.5% or lower and the money could be borrowed for housing, hospitals, water, sewer, and schools and almost any other types of public improvements.
The bill passed the Senate in April and this week it passed the House with a $2 billion dollar authorization.
There has been some speculation that President Eisenhower may veto the bill, I certainly hope that he won't.
I wrote the Mayors and counties officials all over Tennessee about it.
I have never seen a measure in Congress in which they responded so eagerly.
One after another told of local projects greatly needed but which had been delayed because of war, type money or some other reason.
Such a program administered by an agency already in existence would make possible the building of these useful works from plans already in existence prepared in the local communities and cities.
The President signed a bill which had passed the Senate some time ago and was also passed by the House authorizing $4 billion more in housing mortgage money for the Federal Housing Administration.
On my many trips through Tennessee I have found much interest in this. New housing is one of the quickest and best ways to spur the economy.
Because it not only opens the market for housing material, it gives work to construction workers but also opens the door for so much other new activities.
The new homeowner as we all know is in the market for furniture, garden hoses, rakes and a hundred and one other items.
The Senate Public Works Committee, I'm very happy to report approved the $20 million dollar federal building for Memphis, Tennessee,
giving enough money to purchase the land and to get the planning started.
This new federal building is greatly needed because the federal agencies are spread all over town and ten or twelve different buildings where they must rent space.
And then there's not enough room for the court that we have there. We have passed the bill through the House for a new court in Memphis but there isn't any place for the new judge to sit in the event we should get in.
This bill has been worked on hard by Congressman Siford Davis and Senator Gore filed a bill before the Public Works Committee to which many citizens of Memphis came up and testified about two weeks ago.
The money has been authorized by the Senate Appropriations Committee and I think that it will be approved by the Senate. It's a vitally needed building.
And there's another thing of great importance that happened for our Tennessee this week. We have been working for a long, long time to try to get a bridge across the beautiful court loud and down in the North City.
Well, it's been found to be feasible, the traffic sufficient of the state and now we have talked with Mr. Ptolemy and others of the federal bureau of public roads and they have assured Congressman Baker and Senator Gore in me that immediately when they have the
information from the state they will approve the building of this bridge. It will be built by the TVA. It will cost about $2,800,000.
It is fully justified. There's a great deal of traffic between Oak Ridge and the North City, Loudon and Mererville and Smoky Mountain National Park.
And this is something that we worked on a long time. It's made possible by a virtue of a bill that I sponsored back in the House of Representatives in 1944 under which Watts Bar and also Chikamoga bridges were built.
Well, that's about all we have time for now. Thank you very much until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Esther S. Keyfauver, United States Senator from Tennessee and I'm very glad to have this opportunity of speaking to my many friends in the state of Ohio.
I want to tell you about my long cleanets with Stephen Young, who is the Democratic nominee for the United States Senate.
I serve as Steve Young in the House of Representatives back in 1940 and again in Congress in 1948. Steve Young wasn't affected congressman, he got things done.
He always sided with a people who needed a friend. I'm certain that Steve Young and the United States Senate will do much to see that we have full employment for our people that we do not have economic depression and our small farmers get a good chance and he will vote to keep America strong.
So that we can protect our freedom. It will be a great thing to have Steve Young fighting for the people of Ohio and of the United States and the Senate of our great country. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I want to show you a chart which is going to be prophetic. The chart concerns the steel industry. The solid lines show the unit labor cost. The dotted lines show the price of steel.
Notice how these lines are going up. How the price line is outracing the cost line. On July 1st, unless something is done about it, both lines are going to take another sharp rise.
The price line, unless something is done to stop it, is soon going to run off the charts. I've been trying to call attention to this very dangerous situation while there is still time.
Although my efforts long predate this, I have made a public speech about it on the floor of the United States Senate. Every day since June 13th and I shall continue to do so, every day until July 1st.
Nevertheless, I want to say that this is a rather lonely road to travel. I never met anyone else on the road. Everyone from the present down complains about inflation, housewives, businessmen, laborers, farmers. All make noise about how horrible inflation is.
At the never-lift of finger while the horse is walking out of the barn door. They just hope apparently that someone will close the door after he is gone.
Well, the door is wide open now and the horse is standing there, sniffing the fresh breeze and about ready to take off at a gulla.
July 1st will be too late. On that date, there will be an automatic increase in the steel workers' wages under the three-year contract which the United Steel Workers signed with the steel company.
And based on all of the evidence of the past, the steel companies will then raise their prices by at least twice the amount of the wage increase. This was what they did in 1957 and seemed to have done every year.
Well, once steel is up, everything else is going to take another rise. Automobiles will go up, ranges, refrigerators, TV, sets, freezers. All of them use steel and all of them will go up.
The tin can industry has already started hinting that they will have to increase the price of their cans. That means that when you go to the grocery store, you will find another penny marked on the can goods items, the extra cost of the can.
The Senate this week has been working on the tax bill and there has been much discussion of reducing excess taxes by various amounts in order to decrease the cost of goods.
And I supported some of these myself, but I can tell you that the Senate is spinning its wheels by going down that road. Because another steel price rise would set off another round of general price increases that would quickly gobble up any excess tax decrease.
On May 27th, I wrote President Eisenhower about this situation, setting out a program to stop the price increase by voluntary methods.
On June 3rd, he wrote me saying an effect that he thought it best to follow the program on which he had already embarked.
Well, I do not know exactly what his program is in this regard, but I do know that it hasn't worked so far.
I know also that the voluntary program which I outlined to the President has worked in the past, and I am convinced that it would work again. It's really simple enough.
The President would appeal directly to the heads of the steel industry and to the heads of the steel union as patriotic citizens to stop this terrible inflationary move.
He has the authority not only to do this, but to require information from them as to cost, productivity, and so on, and to make that public.
If the appeal to good citizenship didn't work, then I think publicity would. For labor is certainly sensitive to public opinion at this time, and even the companies know that they have to live with the public and sell their products to the public, and so they are not insensitive either.
If you don't think this system would work, then I would like for you to look at history.
The Four World War One things we are going about like we are now. And between July 1914 and November 1916, the price of steel rose 103%.
During a 28-month comparable period between August 1939 and December 1941, when a voluntary system to this was an effect that I have been talking about, it advanced only 2%.
Other comparisons are just as impressive, but July 1st will be too late to make this move. By then the price of steel will be up, the inflationary aspire will run through all industry.
And very soon thereafter, after our predict, there will be more unemployment and a little bit bigger recession. It's also unnecessary. It could all be prevented if we would only act now. Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, all Tennesseans are very, very proud indeed of a distinguished former Commodant of the Marine Corps from 1948 until 1952.
A important man in the military and public life of our country who was born at Tiptonville, Tennessee, and went to the University of Tennessee when many honors of our heroism, both in World War One and World War Two.
I'm sure that many of you seeing this program today will recognize the man that I'm talking about, General Thifton Cates of Tennessee, Tiptonville as a matter of fact.
We'd like to have you on this program with us, General Cates.
Thank you, Assets, for the pleasure to be here. General Cates has kept his interest in the Marine Corps and the services and in the matters pertaining to the defense of the United States.
Here in Congress, we are having hearings in the United States Senate before the Armed Services Committee of which I am a member on a proposed reorganization of the Defense Department which has been recommended by the President and by Secretary McElroy.
The purpose is to reduce to some extent the power of the Secretaries of the Services and try to make it more efficient and miss that in the other to prevent the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the Secretaries from coming directly to Congress.
General Cates testified today about that bill and he's here and I want you to tell the listeners over this station what you think about it and what it's all about and whether you think it would help our services in the General Cates.
Well, Assets is a pretty big order and I guess I probably should have remained a retired officer. I might be an extomari, you can't tell, but anyway, I am greatly concerned over this bill.
There are certain safeguards in it but there are certain things in it that I think that will not help our country in fact it will may jeopardize our country.
A lot of people think that I'm a posse on account of being scared of something happening in the Marine Corps but that's not it at all.
It's something as far bigger than that.
Now, of course we realize that we have to make changes in the present time, have to make some changes on account of the new weapons and new developments in the military.
And we realize that it has to be done but my contention is that the Secretary of Defense has the power at the present time if you can just put the machinery into action and to make it work.
A lot of people think that unification is a magic word that she's going to get efficiency in economy. Well, we haven't gotten economy and we have gained something inefficiency and we can gain more.
General Katesley now have three departments, of course the Air Force, the Army and the Navy and the important service also, the Marine Corps.
This bill would tickle me some of the power particularly during the time of war. The Secretary of the three departments allow the Secretary of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to give their command decisions directly.
Do you think that's necessary or is that in the best interest of the service? Well, what you said is true, it will, it will bypass them.
And I don't think so. I think you should keep that chain of command because if you don't have a chain of command you'd like it to have turmoil of chaos.
And I think you've got to leave those sectaires in a chain of command. It will not, you might say, make it any worse. I mean, it won't delay action things because it can be done almost automatically.
And then another provision is to try to prevent members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from coming directly to Congress when they feel things are going right to make them behave and go through the services.
What do you think about that? I feel very strongly about that because I think the person should be able to express that for your opinion.
I don't think you should put on a campaign or where you go out and you might say crusade against it. But certainly your allegiance to your country and to the Congress that max the laws and you should tell them your free opinion.
Well, we're certainly all grateful to have your viewers about this highly controversial subject. I know your many friends and Tennessee will be off it led to see you on this program. Thank you very much. Thank you, that's all until this time next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, Prince of Tennessee, this is the way the Anchorage Daily Times of June 30th, the kind of headline that they gave the fact that statehood for Alaska was voted in the United States Senate this week. We're in.
Today we have here a man that you're going to be seeing a whole lot of in the days and years ago. Governor Ernest Greening of Alaska.
Governor Greening was Governor of Alaska for a number of years. He's a well-known popular in Alaska. And last year Alaska decided to follow the Tennessee plan.
He's going to tell you more about that in a minute. And Governor Greening was the senator-elect and is the senator-elect from Alaska.
And soon after the bill is signed by the president and elections will held Governor Greening and my opinion will be the distinguished senior senator from the new state of Alaska.
Governor Greening, I'm happy to introduce you to the people of Tennessee. You know them already, but you take over from here.
Thank you, SDs. We know them from the very hospitable welcome. They gave us three members of the Tennessee plan delegation when we came through there on the way to Congress, a year and a half ago.
In our hope that we could persuade the 531 members of the House and Senate to vote statehood. And now they've done it. And a very large part of the credit for that result is due to Yusa who introduced our first statehood bills years ago and kept plugging for it.
And sponsoring it and speaking for on every occasion and lending your voice and efforts to that end. And we're very appreciative of it.
Well, Ernest, I've always felt very deeply that we ought to help ourselves and live up to our obligations by taking Alaska in as a state.
And I don't think it's been possible if you had not had the courage and foresight to follow the Tennessee plan.
It'll be remembered ladies and gentlemen, I had in 1796 Tennessee was a territory that they elected two senators and a member of the House of Representatives who came up and knocked on the door.
So they wanted to be admitted and they were Alaska followed the same plan and it finally worked.
It wouldn't have been possible without you and Senator elect William Egan and Congressman elect Rivers coming here working on behalf of Alaska.
Well, Governor Grayling, tell us something about this great new state that is two and a half times the size of Texas.
Yes, and it isn't so much the quality. I think that counts as the quality. I think perhaps the most useful contribution is that we will be re-instilling the Pioneer Spirit in America.
The people who went to Alaska followed the oldest American tradition which really antedated the founding of Republic, the Westwood quest for greater freedom and greater opportunity.
A great new frontier that would give us a renewed interest in life and in development and in a great territory that we know they can interest and have a hand in helping other people.
It will help in many ways. It will help in our troubled world relations as you know there's some questions whether we're not losing our race against the Soviets in their propaganda that they are a true example of freedom when we know they are a shiny example of tyranny and oppression.
And this making Alaska a state, painting the contrast between how we treat our dependencies, giving them fully quality with the contrast of the Russian treat for the rich satellites such as Hungary. Well, I think that's worth a dozen Sputniks.
That's very interesting. I think the world will appreciate that. That's something they can understand. Especially if you were the fact that Alaska was one spot of Russia.
It was purchased from Russia in 1867. The bit of Sweden called Sueritz Follett. I think we should be Christmas to a Jewish wisdom. And then an addition of that is going to give us a chance to open up this new frontier at a time when the country is in a recession.
Young people will go there, people who are a little bit doubtful about their opportunities at home. We have them now from every state of the Union. We have them from all the 48 states.
Well, our governor, Grinning, they know the people of Tennessee congratulate you of Alaska who followed the Tennessee plan. We are proud of the people of Alaska. We are proud of you.
And someday soon you will be on this program again in just a few weeks as Senator from Alaska in the 48th, 49th state in the Union.
Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much.